---
layout: post
title: AI ethics note
date: 2024-10-20 16:40:16
description: 
tags: AI_Ethics
categories: note
giscus_comments: true
---

**1.Ethics VS. Law**

**Ethics** are the moral principles that govern a person or society’s behavior
 **Laws** are systems of rules that govern a society’s conduct, often enforced by a controlling authority
 • Laws are often informed by ethics, **but not all ethical behaviors are codified in the law**
 • The ethical effects of technology (like social media or AI) can take decades to understand, let alone translate to law

**Unethical Behaviors Enforced by Law**: Murder, Theft, Fraud, Reckless Driving

**Unethical Behaviors NOT Enforced by Law**: Lying, Being unfair to employees or children, Taking credit for others’ work, Eavesdropping or reading private messages.

SCENARIO: **the trolley problem**

<u>A runaway trolley speeds down a track. If it stays on course, 5 people on the track will be hit and killed. 
By pulling a lever, you can divert the trolley to another track where a single bystander will be hit.</u>

Do you pull the lever?
 • 90% of people say they would pull the lever, to save the most lives
 • But **what if the one person was your spouse or best friend? What if it’s one child and five senior citizens?**

SCENARIO:self-driven car

A self-driving car is facing a head-on collision with a reckless driver. If it stays on course, it estimates that the passenger and 4 people in the other car will die. If it veers off course, it will hit one person on the sidewalk.

How should the self-driving car be programmed to respond?
 • What type of algorithm would determine the “best” course of action?
 • Does the company that programmed the car decide how to solve this problem, or should there be laws 
that regulate how AI companies handle decisions like this?

**2.Data Stewardship**

**Data stewardship** is the practice of managing and using data ethically
 • Stewardship ultimately comes down to the golden rule: **treat user data how you’d like your own to be treated**
 • Ethical data stewardship requires a thoughtful approach to **user consent, security, privacy and confidentiality**

**3.Data & Algorithmic bias**

**What is bias?**

**Prejudice in favor of or against** one thing, person, or group compared with another, usually in a way considered to be unfair

**Types of bias**

Sampling bias

Selection bias

Algorithmic bias

Confirmation bias